# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?

A:  console.rb file, the two instantiate instances are property1 and property2

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?

A:  from line 18, models/property.rb, we are defining the sql that will insert the Property object into the database

Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?

A:  line 4, it is deleting everything, line 13 saving property1 in the db, line 22 saving property2 in the db, line 31 saving property3 in the db, line 33 deleting property1 from the db

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?

A:  because we want the db to keep control over it and to check it is a number that increments at every entry (being type SERIAL)

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?

A:  models/property line 32. The sql query returns the id, that is assigned by the var id

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?

A:  otherwise it will require the id to be passed as argument when the object is instantiated. The meaning could

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?
A : it depends on the scope of the class method

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?

A: it returns an array of hashes. To access the id, we need to access the array [0] and then we access the value for the key 'id'

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?

A: prepared statements gives us the possibility not to put the values into the SQL query, where it would be at risk of SQL attack.

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?
A: the id and the address, that then is assigned to values and used in the prepared statements

Q11. What are their return values?
A: they return nil if the value is not found in the db, else:
 it accesses the array through [0], saves the returned hashes into a variable and passes it as argument for instantiating the object of type Property.
 Since the return of the method would be an array of hashes with just the found property, it returns  the instantiated object of Property class instead. 
